{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1344\cocoasubrtf720
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Travis Johnson\
07June2015\
Scalable Data\
Problem Solving\
\

\b Problem1
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720

\b \cf0 Define the problem
\b0 \
\
The problem is to figure out how to get the Cat, Parrot and bag of seed across the river without them eating each other.\
\

\b Break the problem apart
\b0 \
\
The constraints are that if left alone the Cat will eat the Bird and the Bird will eat the seed.\
\
The sub-goals are to get each item across one at a time without leaving the Bird and seed alone or the Bird and Cat alone.\
\

\b Identify potential solutions\
\

\b0 A potential solution is to bring an item back with you when you drop one item off.\
\

\b Choose a solution and develop plant to implement\
\

\b0 The solution to this problem is that the man needs to bring the bird first.\
Go back and grab either the the bag of seed \
The man will then bring back the bird he brought on the first trip leaving the seed on the other side by itself.\
The man will then bring over the cat leaving the bag of seed and cat on the other side. \
The last step is for the man to bring the bird over. leaving all three items on the other side.\
I drew the problem out on paper and simulated crossing the river with each item finding out which combination of going across and returning worked\
\

\b Problem 2
\b0 \

\b Define the problem\

\b0 \
The problem is that you have 20 socks in the drawer that are three different colors. In the dark and without checking till you have picked them, you must figure out what the minimum numbers of socks you can grab to get at least one matching pair and at least one matching pair of each color.\
\

\b Break the problem apart\

\b0 \
The constraints are that you are in the dark selecting the socks\
You must select a matching pair\
You cannot check the socks until after they have been picked\
\

\b Identify potential solutions\
\

\b0 Since there are 3 different colors of socks if you choose 4 socks you should get at least one matching pair.\
\

\b Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it.\
\

\b0 The solution is to grab 4 socks. Since there are 3 different colors of socks if you pick 4 you should have one of each color then the 4th sock will be one of the other three colors giving you a matching pair. \
\

\b Problem 3
\b0 \

\b Define the problem\
\

\b0 The problem is that the girls is counting on her hands but doing it in a different way,  she starts with the thumb as 1 but when she reverses direction on her hand she counts her ring finger 6. The girl wants to know what finger she will land on for the number 10,100 and 1000\
\

\b Break the problem apart\
\

\b0 The constraints are the way that the girl is counting on her fingers using her thumb as 1 and her little finger as 5, but when she reverses directions the ring finger is 6.\
The sub-goals are to determine the finger she will land on for the number 10, 100 and 1000.\
\

\b identify potential solution\
\

\b0 For finding what finger 10 will be just use the directions that are given in the problem for counting, 1 being the thumb and five being the pinky. For finding 100 and 1000 when counting in the way described you add 8 each time you return the the thumb. So dividing the number by 8 the remainder will be the number corresponding to the finger in the count.\
\

\b Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it\
\

\b0 To solve the problem i divided each number by 8. dividing 10 by 8 is 1.2 the number 2 is the index finger. dividing 100 by 8 gives you 12.5 5 is the little finger. Dividing 8 by 1000 comes out even meaning the index finger is the answer. I used my fingers to count to ten which helped my figure out that the number increases by 8 when you reach the thumb.
\b \
\

\b0 \
\

\b \
}